

A new Request for Comments is now available in online RFC libraries.


        RFC 1533:

        Title:      DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions
        Author:     S. Alexander & R. Droms
        Mailbox:    stevea@lachman.com, droms@bucknell.edu
        Pages:      30
        Characters: 50,919
        Obsoletes:  1497, 1395, 1084, 1048


The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) provides a framework
for passing configuration information to hosts on a TCP/IP network.
Configuration parameters and other control information are carried in
tagged data items that are stored in the "options" field of the DHCP
message.  The data items themselves are also called "options."  This
RFC specifies the current set of DHCP options.  This document will be
periodically updated as new options are defined.  Each superseding
document will include the entire current list of valid options.  This
RFC is the product of the Dynamic Host Configuration Working Group of
the IETF.

This is now a Proposed Standard Protocol.

This RFC specifies an Internet standards track protocol for the
Internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.  Please refer to the current edition of the "Internet
Official Protocol Standards" for the standardization state and status
of this protocol.  Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

This announcement is sent to the IETF list and the RFC-DIST list.
Requests to be added to or deleted from the IETF distribution list
should be sent to IETF-REQUEST@CNRI.RESTON.VA.US.  Requests to be added
to or deleted from the RFC-DIST distribution list should be sent to
RFC-REQUEST@NIC.DDN.MIL.

Details on obtaining RFCs via FTP or EMAIL may be obtained by sending
an EMAIL message to "rfc-info@ISI.EDU" with the message body 
"help: ways_to_get_rfcs".  For example:

	To: rfc-info@ISI.EDU
	Subject: getting rfcs

	help: ways_to_get_rfcs

Requests for special distribution should be addressed to either the
author of the RFC in question, or to admin@DS.INTERNIC.NET.  Unless
specifically noted otherwise on the RFC itself, all RFCs are for
unlimited distribution.

Submissions for Requests for Comments should be sent to
RFC-EDITOR@ISI.EDU.  Please consult RFC 1111, "Instructions to RFC
Authors", for further information.


Joyce K. Reynolds
USC/Information Sciences Institute

